This file describes a set of commands for using and controlling
various forms of character names.  Commands for using name forms are
used within the datatype macro argument, e.g. \cTest{\parseprefix},
\cTest{\formal}, and \cTest{\intro}, or as part of Char mappings.
Commands for controlling name forms are used either when creating Char
macros or inside \updatemacro.




Commands For Using Name Forms:

The low-level commands are the raw parts of a name.  The mid-level
commands are logical combinations and shortcuts.  The high-level
commands are structured by how you use them rather than what they
generate.  You control what they generate with a set of controlling
commands.  You will probably use the low- and mid-level commands
directly only rarely.  Most of the high-level commands are used
automatically, based on context (when you use Char macros with a blank
argument).



Low-Level \parsename Commands: Char macros use \parsename, from
parsename.sty, on \MYname.  This generates a number of \parse*
commands for each character that correspond to parts of the name, e.g.
the first and last names, suffixes, etc.  See parsename.sty for a
description all the \parse* commands.



Mid-Level Logical Name Commands: These commands are shortcuts for
simple logical uses of the \parse* commands.

\full is a shortcut for \MYname.

\fullplain is the full name minus any prefixes or suffixes.

\first is a shortcut for \parsefirst, i.e. the first name.

\middle is a shortcut for \parserest, i.e. the middle name(s).

\last is a shortcut for \parselast, i.e. the last name.

\formal gives the last name (or first name, if the last is blank),
with any prefixes (but not suffixes) tacked on.

\informal gives the first name (or last if the first is blank).

Given:

  \NEW{Char}{\cBobSmith}{
    \s\MYname	{Dr.\null\pre Robert Smith}
    \nickname	{Dr.\null\pre Bob}
    }

"\cBobSmith{\formal}" would generate "Dr. Smith" and
"\cBobSmith{\informal}" would generate "Robert" (and
"\cBobJones{\nick{\informal}}" would generate "Bob").



High-Level Name Mappings: These commands incorporate the other name
commands and identities (see Extras/README-identity).  What they
generate is controlled by other commands (covered later in this file).
You will probably never use \usual, \contactmapping, or \titlemapping
directly; instead, they are used automatically.

\intro is for when you want to introduce a character in a sheet, by
giving something like their full name.  It should be the argument to
the Char macro, e.g. "\cBobSmith{\intro}"

\usual is what a Char macro in the general text of sheets will
generate with a blank arg, e.g. "\cBobSmith{}" in a character sheet.

\contactmapping is what a Char macro with a blank arg will generate
inside \contact{} (itself inside the contacts environment), e.g.
"\contact{\cBobSmith{}}".  This is in addition to the playername also
generated.

\titlemapping is what a Char macro with a blank arg will generate in
the sheet title, e.g. "\name{\cBobSmith{}}".




Commands For Controlling Name Forms:

Controls Local to Sheets: You can use the below commands for
controlling character names when you create the Char macro.  However,
if you want a particular sheet to view a particular character
differently, you can make changes to the Char macro that are local to
the given sheet.

Using \updatemacro{<datatype macro>}{<new updates>} in a sheet, after
\begin{document}, applies <new updates> to <datatype macro> within the
scope of the sheet.  For example:

  \updatemacro{\cBobSmith}{
    \unknownplayer
    }

means that the given sheet does not know who is playing \cBobSmith{}.

\defaultnamemappings, defined in the .cls file, declares the default
settings for the namemappings for all characters.  For example:

  \def\defaultnamemappings{
    \titlemap{\full}
    \mapnickinformal
    }

Will make \titlemap{\full} and \mapnickinformal default for all
characters.



Changing Names and Players: These commands change \MYname and
\MYplayer for a character.

\changeplayer{<playername>} changes \MYplayer to <playername>.

\unknownplayer changes \MYplayer to "unknown".

\deceased changes \MYplayer to "deceased".

\changename{<name>} changes \MYname to <name>.

\unknownname changes \MYname to "unknown".



Controlling Name Mappings: Each of \intro, \usual, and \contactmapping
have two parts: an identity and a mapping.  \titlemapping does not
have an identity part.  For example, if the identity part of \usual is
\nick, and the mapping part of \usual is \informal, then \usual will
generate \nick{\informal}.



Controlling the Identity Part: If the identity part is \blankid, then
the mapping will not use an identity (because \blankid{<mapping>}
generates <mapping> directly).  \real, \nick, and \maiden can be used
safely even if \realname, \nickname, and \maidenname, respectively,
have not been used (they act similarly to \blankid).

\introid{<id>} changes the identity part of \intro to <id>.

\usualid{<id>} changes the identity part of \usual to <id>.

\contactid{<id>} changes the identity part of \contactmapping to <id>.

\allid{<id>} changes the identity part of \intro, \usual, and
\contactmapping to <id>.

\idreal changes the identity part of \intro, \usual, and
\contactmapping to \real.  This is useful for when a character knows
another only by their real name.

\idnick changes the identity part of \intro, \usual, and
\contactmapping to \nick.  This is useful for when a character knows
another only by their nickname.

\idmaiden changes the identity part of \intro, \usual, and
\contactmapping to \maiden.

\idnormal changes the identity part of \intro, \usual, and
\contactmapping to \blankid.



Controlling the Mapping Part: The mapping part can be any combination
of name commands, though is usually one of \full, \fullplain, \formal,
and \informal.

\titlemap{<mapping>} changes the mapping part of \titlemapping to
<mapping>.  It has no identity part, so <mapping> is the entirety of
what it will generate.

\intromap{<mapping>} changes the mapping part of \intro to <mapping>.

\usualmap{<mapping>} changes the mapping part of \usual to <mapping>.

\contactmap{<mapping>} changes the mapping part of \contactmapping to
<mapping>.

\allmap{<mapping>} changes the mapping part of \intro, \usual, and
\contactmapping to <mapping>.

\mapformal changes the mapping part of \intro to \fullplain, the
mapping part of \usual to \formal, and the mapping part of
\contactmapping to \full.

\mapinformal changes the mapping part of \intro and \contactmapping to
\full and the mapping part of \usual to \informal.



Controlling Both Parts: These commands change both the identity and
mapping parts for all of \intro, \usual, and \contactmapping.  They
are common total values for the name mappings (except \titlemapping).

\mapnickinformal changes the identity mapping of \intro and
\contactmapping to \blankid, the identity mapping of \usual to \nick,
and changes the mapping parts of all the same as \mapinformal.  This
means that the character's full name will be generated in contact
lists and when you introduce them in a sheet, but will generate
\nick{\informal} (probably the most familiar form of their name) for
\usual.  So "\cBobSmith{\intro}" will generate "Dr. Robert Smith",
"\contact{\cBobSmith{}}" will generate "Dr. Robert Smith (<player>)"
and "\cBobSmith{}" will generate "Bob".

\maptrueformal changes the identity mappings all according to
\idnormal and the mapping parts of all the same as \mapformal.  So
"\cBobSmith{\intro}" will generate "Robert Smith",
"\contact{\cBobSmith{}}" will generate "Dr. Robert Smith (<player>)"
and "\cBobSmith{}" will generate "Dr. Smith".
